[Music]
electric cars everyone thinks they
understand them everyone has an opinion
but let's be real we could all do with a
little bit of help separating fact from
fiction so with that in mind and because
it's World EV day 9th of September in
case you're wondering I thought I'd make
a little video explaining everything you
need to know about electric cars like
this one
[Music]
are you serious okay fine an electric
vehicle or an EV is a type of car is it
except it runs on electricity from a
battery which Powers a motor or two or
three or four and that means you can
charge it up at home or from a public
charger to get it going it's completely
different from an ice car that's an
internal combustion engine car which
runs on petrol or diesel and also very
different from our hybrid which uses a
combination of petrol and electric we'll
talk about those a bit later
on usually an electric car will have a
motor at the front or at the back or
sometimes at the back and at the front
or sometimes two at the back two at the
front there's a lot of different
combinations but basically those Motors
get their energy from a battery but not
this battery that is the 12vt battery
pack you get in every single car
including EVS its job is only to start
the vehicle once it's all powered up the
main battery the traction battery is the
one that takes over and drives the car
the traction battery is normally
packaged nice and low along the floor of
the vehicle because it's so massive and
that's the best place for it to fit the
distance an EV can drive on a fully
charged battery is called its range
range depends mainly on the battery size
in kilowatt hours 50 KW hours is about
average anything less than that is
pretty small and 100 KW hours is a lot
we'll come back to battery sizes
[Music]
shortly here's what you do you take your
charge cable you open your charge flap
on your car and then you plug it in it
really is as simple as that except
actually it's not quite as simple as
that because the way you charge depends
very much on where you charge but
usually you're going to be doing most of
your charging from home because that's
the cheapest and easiest way to do it
you'll usually need a private driveway
for that though or at least a parking
space right near your house it is
possible to run an EV without a home
charger you can use a lamp post charger
for example and you can technically
charge your car at home without having a
driveway by using a system that tucks
the cable along the pavement like this
one from kerbo charge you can also
consider charging at work or in a car
park at a supermarket which lets you top
up while you work or do your shopping
but the quickest type of charging is
from a public rapid charger the sort
you'll usually find at a service station
or dedicated EV charging facility more
on these in a
second I'm going to answer that in a
second but there's some technical jargon
that I need to explain before I get to
that so ask me about the technical
jargon ask me about kilowatts and
kilowatt
hours okay so you know how all
electrical devices are measured in watts
right like light bulb this is a 5w light
bulb it's the same for electric cars in
fact all cars this car the voxal Astra
electric sports Tor has an electric
motor that produces
115,000 wats AKA 115 Kow and that's the
equivalent of 154 horsepower side note
even petrol cars can be measured in
kilowatt for example in Australia they
do that all the time the Ford Mustang GT
has a V8 that produces 44 4 horsepower
which is the equivalent of 331 KW now
you know so now we've covered power in
Kow we need to cover energy in kilowatt
hours that's your battery capacity the
capacity in a AA battery is around 3.9 W
hours because the battery in an EV is
way bigger it's measured in thousands of
w hours AKA kilowatt hours that's how
many kilowatt the battery can supply the
motor for a full hour stick with me
it sounds complicated but it's really
not I'll dumb it down right imagine this
car had a tiny 1 kilow motor which is
the equivalent of about 1.3 horsepower
but it still had a huge 50 KW battery
pack well the energy in that battery
pack is enough to run that 1 Kow motor
for 50
hours glad you asked that depends on
whether you're doing AC or DC charging
AC that's alternating current is the
type of electricity used domestically at
home DC that's direct current is the
type of electricity that you'll normally
use when you're out at a public charger
and we'll get to those in just a second
there's a fair few ways to charge at
home one way the slowest of all is to
use a three pin charger this thing
connects to a three pin plug and the
fastest it can charge is at 3.6 KW which
would charge the 50 KW hour battery in
the Astra in about 13.8 hours a much
more flexible way of charging your EV is
to use a dedicated wall box like this
one from podp point this thing is much
faster it can send 7 kilow of power into
the battery double the speed of the
three pin charger which means charging
your car is a lot faster from one of
these how fast well the charge speed is
7 KW and the battery capacity is 50 KW
hours 50 / 7 equal 7.1 so it will take
7.1 hours to fully charge from 0 to 100%
if if that sounds like a long time don't
worry most people won't be getting home
with an empty battery every single day
you might get home with 50% left in the
battery in which case the three pin
charger would take about 7 hours to go
from 50 to 100 and the 7 Kow wallbox
would take 3 and 1/2 hours rapid
charging totally different story this is
a public rapid charger and remember how
at home you can charge at 7 KW on one of
these you can go way quicker from 50 KW
all the way up to 120 k K in this case
and even in some cases as fast as
350
KW now not all electric cars can charge
at the same speed the speed will depend
on the battery in terms of its chemistry
and the way it's been designed some
batteries charge faster than others and
that's reflected in the price of the
battery and therefore the price of the
car this Astra is pretty middle of the
road when it comes to Rapid charging it
can only top up at a maximum of 100 KW
the other thing to know is that you
won't always get the full charging speed
all the time batteries charge way
quicker when they're above 20% full and
Below 80% full so keep that in
mind hang on there's still more to
explain here about rapid charging so
because nobody tends to rock up to a
fast charger when they're completely
empty on 0% and charging above 80% is
quite slow manufacturers don't give out
0 to 100% times what they tend to do is
give out 10 to 80% % or 20 to 80% as a
rough guideline for how fast your car
will charge now normally that tends to
work out about half an hour in the case
of this voxal Astra electric sports
Torah you can get from 20% to 80% in
about 26 minutes on a 100 KW
charger the reason that the speed of
charging slows down as batteries get
Fuller is because overcharging is a bad
idea and the battery management system
in the cars need to slow down the rate
of charge to prevent that from happening
it's a bit like this I've got a bottle
of water and this little pot here when I
start charging I can go quite quickly
can't I but then as I get to the top
I've got to slow it down and fill it
more gradually to prevent overfilling
this is exactly how electric cars work
you don't want to do
this not always actually and that's
because the smart EV driver doesn't
charge their car in the same way that a
petual car driver will refuel their car
you see for example if you're going on a
300M trip and your Eevee has a range of
250 you don't need to stop and fill it
all the way back up what you do is you
stop after about 200 miles you top up
for maybe 10 minutes get the amount of
charge you need and then continue your
journey because once you get to your
destination you can plug in
[Music]
again on some cars range was pretty bad
the oldness and leaf for example example
had a tiny 24 kwh battery also some car
makers deliberately design their cars
with a small battery to keep the price
low or their profit margin's high but
these days they tend to go pretty far a
Tesla Model 3 can go nearly 400 m on a
single charge 390 to be precise the new
tyan can go 421 Mi a Mercedes eqs can go
450 Mi and that's further than most
people driving a single trip if you're
doing a 300M Journey For example that's
a 5-hour Drive D averaging 60 MPH most
people won't do that in one sitting so
stopping to charge isn't always annoying
it might actually be sweet
relief here's the thing most domestic
properties have what's called
singlephase electricity which restricts
them to 7 Kow charging you could go
faster if your house has three-phase
electricity but that's very rare if you
were lucky enough to have it then you
could upgrade your charger to 11 KW or
22 KW with an 11 Kow charger you could
charge the 50 KW battery pack in this
car in about 4 and 1/2 hours with a 22
KW charger you could charge it in about
2.2 hours but should you bother here's
the thing most people are going to be
charging their EVS overnight while they
sleep so speed isn't really that
important but here's another
complication when you're at a public
charge point the charge speed is
dictated by the speed at which the
battery itself can accept a DC charge
however when charging at home home it's
the electronics in the car in the
onboard charger which converts AC to DC
which dictates how fast you charge at
home so if your car's onboard charger
only charges at 7 KW using a 22 KW
Charger won't make it any
faster yep there's actually a few
different types but the most common is
what's called CCS that's what you find
on most electric cars CCS stands for
Combined charging system and that's
because it's actually to charge ports in
one the top one is what's called a type
two and that's what fits your regular
type 2 plug at home and then there's a
little bottom bit down here with two
extra prongs which allow DC charging if
you go to a public charger what you'll
notice is that they look exactly like a
type two but with two little extra
prongs on the
end there are also other types of DC
charger including one called shadoo used
by some Vehicles like the Nissan Leaf
because it was designed mainly by Nissan
but CCs is more Universal as it offers
AC and DC in one port rather than
needing two separate ports or the use of
an
adapter if you're charging at home the
cost of recharging will depend entirely
on your electricity tariff electricity
companies like to charge you for every
single kilowatt hour of electricity that
you use that's called the unit price
some of them do have EV specific tariffs
though which mean they'll charge you a
lot less for energy overnight while the
rest of the country is asleep during the
daytime the normal unit price is likely
to be somewhere in the region of 20 25
30 P per kilowatt hour but at night it's
likely to be as low as 7 P per kilowatt
hour which means that fully charging
this 50 kwh battery pack will only cost
you
£350 which is amazing considering the
fact that you can drive this thing for
250 280 Mi but there is a caveat because
these cheap rates are only offered
between 12:30 and 5:30 in the morning
that means you can't fully charge the
car from zero to 100% so you got to
split it over several nights that's why
it's important to keep plugging in your
car every single night to benefit from
that cheap rate how do you make sure
your car only charges during a specific
window well a lot of cars will actually
allow you to set the charging time in
the driver display you simply set your
charging time and the car will only
charge during that window you can also
set that charging window using an app
for the car or an app that comes with
your
wallbox public charges are a different
kettle of fish they tend to be far more
expensive by a long way some rapid
charge companies will charge you 85 P
per kilowatt hour so if you're filling
up a 50 Kow hour pack that will cost you
£
4250 yep and you do it in exactly the
same way as you would if you were trying
to make a petrol car use less petrol
petrol cars use a metric called miles
per gallon and electric cars use one
called mil per kilowatt hour there's
also a couple of other ones including
kilowatt hours per 100 km but they all
tell the same story of efficiency just
look at the dashboard readout if it's
saying 3 m per Kow hour that means you
can go 3 m for every Kow hour in the
battery multiply that by your battery
capacity and you'll have your realtime
range for any given trip
well yeah and the reason is they use an
industry standard test to figure out the
range it's pretty much the same test
that they use to figure out miles per
gallon in a petrol car and it is of
course wildly optimistic again it all
depends on how you drive you could be
driving up a hill with a car full of
people towing a caravan and that will
all reduce your range in the real
world yep I'm afraid so in the case of
the Tesla Model that I'm running at the
moment range in summer is normally
around the 250 Mark but in the winter
it's more like
220 we're back to public charging fine
listen most charging stations don't
require you to have a subscription
usually you can rock up and use your
phone or your contactless card and pay
for your charging that way there are
some benefits to having a subscription
namely your electricity can be a tad
cheaper but you can just pay as you go
yeah of course you can all EV charge
ports are designed to be weather sealed
and you can use them in whatever weather
you want imagine if they
weren't longer than you think normally
when people think about batteries they
think about their mobile phones where
the batteries tend to go bad after a
couple of years but electric cars are
completely different and that's because
of something called cycle life cycle
life measures how many complete charges
and dis charges a rechargeable battery
can experience before it no longer holds
a useful charge in other words if a
fully charged battery is discharged to
0% and then fully recharged that's one
cycle if it's discharged to 50% and
charged to 100% that's half a cycle it's
very common for most of us to run
completely out of battery with our
mobile phones so 100 to Z to 100 is
fairly common on a mobile phone but
that's bad news because a battery has a
limited number of Cycles it can do
before it might be considered unable to
hold a useful charge now let's look at
EVS the average daily Journey distance
in the UK is around 18 Mi and at the end
of the week you might only have driven
127 mil which in a car like this means
that you haven't really taken the
battery down from 100 to zero you
haven't yet completed a full cycle
remember that if you discharge from 100
to 50% and then top up again that's only
half a cycle complete only one cycle a
week and by the end of the year you may
only have done 52 Cycles in the same
period of time a mobile phone might have
done 73 Cycles depth of discharge is
another issue running the battery
completely flat which we all do with our
mobile phones reduces battery health EVS
will never let you completely empty
their batteries they all have a buffer
that prevents the battery getting to
really low levels notice I've been
telling you the Astra has a 50 KW
battery pack it doesn't its real size is
54 Kow hours it keeps about 4 KW hours
as a buffer for safety and then you add
in things like thermal management
batteries don't like extreme heat or
extreme cold and in a mobile phone there
isn't really any protection from those
elements but in a car you can have all
sorts of fancy extras like heat pumps or
fans to cool the battery and that allows
them to work in a very specific
operating window without being
negatively affected by extreme heat or
extreme cold
depends they can last a really long time
we did a series on a Tesla Mod L that's
still running after 43,000 Mi on the
clock and the person who owns that car
has another Model S with almost as many
miles he uses both of them as taxis if
you look after an EV they might Outlast
petrol
cars an electric car is a lot more
environmentally friendly than a petrol
car once it hits the road and that's
because these things don't have any tail
p type emissions whatsoever a petrol car
or a hybrid car will always keep on
spitting out CO2 from the moment it
leaves the factory until the moment you
crush it and get rid of it with an EV
once it leaves the factory it's a lot
cleaner that said emissions are produced
when making Electric Cars Plus during
their transport from the factory to your
driveway but it's still nowhere near the
total emissions of equivalent ice cars
by the time the cars reach the end of
their life Volvo did some comparison
work in this area recently comparing the
whole life emissions of a petrol xc40
SUV against the similarly sized ex30 at
the end of the 124,000 M Mark the
electric car had produced 60% fewer CO2
emissions than the petrol
car car batteries have a much longer
life than you probably think even when a
batteries dropped to 70% of its original
capacity there's still plenty of use
left in it in the case of the old model
Le that we were running a battery with
that level of degradation can still do
190 Mi on the motorway more around town
when the battery is completely done for
it can have a second life as a renewable
energy storage system for homes or
businesses some car makers are getting
creative with that idea Nissan for
example gives its batteries a second
life by using them as backup energy
storage at the Amsterdam Arena where exx
football club play recycling EV
batteries is also possible and there are
a fair few companies springing up
waiting to take advantage of that but
the truth is recycling isn't really a
big deal just yet and that's partly
because EVS are still relatively new and
also because the batteries in EVS last a
really long time plus there's also the
fact that when they're finished in an EV
the batteries can be used as second life
batteries to power your home or your
business but in the future recycling is
definitely going to be a
thing this one is a big issue and
probably needs a whole separate video to
explain everything but here's the claim
EVS require a lot of raw materials mined
from the earth usually in places like
the Democratic Republic of Congo the
Australian Outback or Chile and they
leave behind a lot of local
environmental Devastation and human
rights abuses and that is only going to
get worse apparently as EVS get more
popular that's the claim but the reality
is that it's not nearly as bad as people
say and the alternative that's ice C
isn't immune to the same criticism
according to a US Geological Survey
130,000 tons of lithium is mined but
that's dwarfed by other materials there
were 2.6 billion tons of iron or mined
for steel in 2022 and 4.4 billion tons
for oil the silver lining for battery
mining is the fact that 80 to 90% of an
EV battery can be recycled which will
cut down on the requirement to keep
mining in the future with a petrol car
the mining never stops
okay we're going to do some quick fire
questions now starting with aren't EVS
causing more potholes well maybe but
that's the theory anyway what people are
saying is that because EVS are heavier
that they're more likely to cause damage
on the roads but no one has ever
actually done a study to prove that
that's the case and hopefully as EVS get
lighter they're much less likely to
cause damage on the road can I take an e
through a car wash yes you can aren't
electric cars a fad no the transition is
happen happening worldwide and in fact
by 2035 you won't be able to buy a new
petrol or diesel car in the UK you'll
have to buy electric will I have to
scrap my petrol car in 2035 no petrol
and diesel won't be banned you just
won't be able to buy them brand new why
are they so expensive well the main cost
of an EV is the battery pack batteries
are very very expensive but over time as
more people make batteries economies of
scale mean that batteries should get
cheaper and EVS should become much more
affordable should I buy a used EV yes
depreciation is your friend here trust
me don't EVS burst into flames all the
time no bed fure fire and rescue service
looked into vehicle fires and what they
recorded was that there was
1,898 fires from Petrol and diesel cars
and guess how many from Electric 54 EVS
don't make noise isn't that dangerous
for pedestrians well they do make noise
in fact they're mandated to make a noise
at low speeds and the noise has to be
around 54 DB in order for pedestrians to
hear your car approaching so they do
make noise can you get a manual gearbox
in an EV not really Toyota is working on
a solution Hyundai in fact have a
solution in the ionic 5n in which they
simulate a dual clutch gearbox in the
car and it works really well and there
are some aftermarket companies that are
putting old school manual gearboxes into
EVS but for 99% of EVS it's automatic
what's the difference between an e EV
and a hybrid well an EV or a battery EV
a Bev is a car powered entirely by
batteries a hybrid is a car that's
powered by a combination of batteries
and petrol a mild hybrid has a small
motor which helps the battery chug along
a full hybrid has a much larger battery
which helps the motor in order to reduce
the amount of petrol you use and a
plug-in hybrid has an even bigger
battery which means you can plug it in
charge it up and drive it around on
electric only mode for considerable
distances of around 30 to 70 mil in most
cases but a battery electric vehicle
runs only on battery power and that's
the only way you can drive it nice and
simple why is everyone pushing EVS well
it's all about air quality and emissions
in it basically normal petrol and diesel
cars pump out a lot of carbon dioxide
and that can cause the planet to warm
when you got a warm planet that can mess
up the weather and the environment raise
the sea levels and disrupt the way of
life on this planet and that's why we're
trying to reduce the amount of CO2 that
get spit into the atmosphere and
electric cars are one way of doing that
are they really the solution well what I
always say is not by themselves it's a
bit like living in a house where every
single room is messy if you tidy one
room that's not going to fix the whole
problem but in order to fix the whole
problem you got to start by tidying one
room and electric cars are that room you
got to start somewhere and do something
in order to move on to the next step oh
and one more they're boring to drive
though aren't
they have a look at this
[Music]
right that's enough from me I hope that
you learned something today I hope you
understand EVS just a little bit more
than when you started this video and I
hope you enjoyed it enough to like And
subscribe I know that there's a lot more
to cover and maybe we will drop a
question down below if you got anything
that you want to ask me but in the
meantime thanks for watching I'll see
you guys soon
[Music]