for our first episode of 2025 I wanted
to look back at 2024 and review the top
10 cyber security stories number one
will not surprise you this is threatwire
number 10 all of the AI
fails in 2024 AI became more persistent
more present than ever from chat GPT
struggling to count the number of RS in
Strawberry it's three by the way to AI
companies making B security decisions AI
firmly established itself as a dubious
space for cyber security rabbits R1
device marketed as a personal assistant
was exposed for hardcoding API keys that
granted hackers access to user data and
email systems issues the company largely
dismissed open ai's Mac OS chat gbt app
stored conversations in plain text and
bypassed Mac OS sandboxing leaving user
data vulnerable until public backlash
forced a fix Microsoft's recall feature
part of their AI driven co-pilot plus
PCS was found to store unencrypted user
data including screenshots and messages
raising ethical and security concerns
despite Microsoft's subsequent half
measures like encryption and opt-in
requirements together these incidents
reveal a troubling pattern the rush to
AI Innovation often overlooks
fundamental security leaving users
privacy and data at risk number nine the
nvd went AFK the nvd or national
vulnerability database resumed activity
after a prolonged silence during which
its operations largely halted this
caused significant delays in cve
processing and created a backlog of
vulnerabilities this lapse is attributed
to the establishment of an industry
Consortium by the nist or National
Institute of Standards and Technology
to manage nvd
responsibilities this raised concerns
among cyber Security Professionals
reliant on nvds CVSs scoring and
metadata for prioritizing vulnerability
remediation at the CNA Summit and vul
con nist's Tanya Brewer announced the
Consortium structure and eligibility
emphasizing shared responsibilities and
funding
support recent updates revealed the nvd
has hired analysts to address the
backlog and is implementing a new system
for authorized data providers to enhance
data processing additionally MVD plans
to enrich cve records with more
comprehensive information from multiple
sources while improving data
organization and system functionality
despite the progress the gaps in cve
enrichment earlier this year underscore
the critical need for Reliable
vulnerability management resources
number eight so many supply chain
attacks in 2024 supply chain attacks
were on the rise with multiple incidents
exposing vulnerabilities in popular
libraries and ecosystems Sans uncovered
a major attack on the polyfill
JavaScript library which after being
sold to a Chinese entity began injecting
malware via its CDN similarly check
marks reported several python supply
chain attacks including typo squatting
on packages named like files. pie.
hosta.org targeting Developers in
stealing sensitive data a highly
specific campaign targeted gcp
credentials on Mac devices while a
Revival hijacking exploit on piie
allowed attackers to republish deleted
packages with malicious updates
affecting automated dependency
management additionally malicious npm
packages targeted roadblocks developers
leveraging typo squatting and malware to
compromise systems and deploy rats but
these incidents highlight the escal ing
threat of supply chain attacks my
favorite across the software ecosystem
emphasizing the urgent need for robust
security measures and awareness number
seven kasperski ban earlier this year
the US government finalized a ban on
kasperski antivirus software stating
National Security risks tied to the
company's Russian Origins and potential
influ influence by a foreign adversary
effective September 29th 2024 the ban
prohibited Ed the sale updates and
integration of kasperski products though
Consulting and advisory Services were
exempt in response kasperski ceased us
operations in July alerting customers
that cyber security coverage would
transition to Pango groups Ultra AV
solution however the switch sparked
chaos when kasperski software was
silently replaced with ultra AV Tools
without user consent causing confusion
system issues and public out cry was it
malware or what was going on well
kasperski denies posing security threats
and highlights its transparency efforts
the move reflects broader us concerns
about foreign-based software similar to
the debate surrounding Tik Tok meanwhile
sanctions were imposed on 12 kasperski
leaders further cementing the growing
distrust between us and foreign
adversary linked tech companies number
six shiny hunters and The Ticket Master
Fallout Ticket Master was hacked by the
group named shiny Hunters who allegedly
sold 1.3 terabyt of customer data
impacting 560 million users only for
$500,000 initial reports wrongly
implicated Cloud company snowflake
leading to misinformation despite
snowflakes denial and investigations by
mandate and crowd strike these
investigations found no compromise of
sensitive data instead their breaches
stemmed from info stealer malware
campaigns Target tarting snowflakes
customers credentials exacerbated by the
lack of default
MFA hackers also exploited third-party
contractors like epam systems though
epam denies involvement while Ticket
Master filed the required SEC disclosure
snowflake hadn't raising scrutiny about
the response around 165 snowflake
customers were notified of potential
impacts emphasizing the need for
enhanced security measures like MFA
number 5 welcome back net
neutrality on April 25th 2024 the FCC
led by commissioner Anna Gomez voted 3
to two to restore net neutrality this
policy originally enacted in 2025 during
the Obama Administration and later
appealed in 2017 under the next
Administration net neutrality ensures
that all internet traffic is treated
equally by service providers prohibiting
practices like throttling specific
websites commissioner Gomez and
emphasizes the importance of broadband
as ESS Central infrastructure for Modern
Life comparable to water and electricity
in addition they highlighted its role in
its safety health education and economy
by classifying Broadband as a public
utility the Revival of net neutrality
aims to improve service accountability
expand access and support robust
internet services Nationwide number four
salt typhoon owns the US Telos the US
Telecom system was under scrutiny
following the Revelation that
china-based hacken group salt typhoon
AKA famous Sparrow Earth estries ghost
Emperor or UNCC 2286 had infiltrated at
least eight us Telo companies impacting
dozen of countries exploiting
vulnerabilities in vpns firewalls and
Microsoft Exchange servers the attackers
used tools like Wim c.ex and pexe c.ex
for lateral movement and deployed
malware such as Snappy B demo deex and
ghost spider for long-term Espionage
these breaches publicized by Tren micro
and acknowledged by the US Agencies and
their five eyes Partners highlighted
systematic weaknesses in the Telco
infrastructure despite the adoption of
endtoend encryption in the RCs messaging
standard for Android messages between
iPhone and Android continue to remain
vulnerable prompting intelligence
agencies to recommend encrypted apps
like signal or WhatsApp for messaging
however calls for responsibly managed
encryption suggests that the crypto Wars
do persist with no clear resolution in
sight number three XZ utils backd door
on March 29th 2024 Andres frund a
Microsoft engineer discovered a back
door in the open source XZ utils
compressions tools while profiling
unusual CPU usage during invalid SSH
logins the back door presented in
versions 5.6.0 and
5.6.1 exploits off fiscated scripts in
the build process to inject malicious
code enabling remote code execution as
roote assigned cve 2024 3094 with the
CVSs score of 10 this vulnerability
highlights a sophisticated supply chain
attack facilitated by social engineering
suspicious contributors such as Gan and
others gained maintainer access to XU
Tails leading to the integration of the
back door
though the ex utils project has
primarily been maintained by Lassie
Colin he was misled by malicious
attackers this attack underscores the
vulnerability in open- Source software
Supply chains and the critical need for
enhanced oversight and security
practices as well as supporting our
local open- Source developers number two
progressions of the internet archive the
internet archive faced a challenging
period with a Court ruling in cyber
attacks threatening its mission to
preserve digital knowledge
on September 4th the second Circuit
Court of Appeals upheld a decision that
the archives National Emergency Library
launched during covid-19 had in fact
infringed on Publishers copyrights it
ended up rejecting their fair use
defense and compounding on these
challenges the archive suffered a data
breach exposing over 31 million user
records and a subsequent dos attack this
attack was claimed by SN black meta
group temporarily taking it Serv
Services offline the breach stemmed from
exposed gitlab Secrets including API
keys and zenes tokens despite these
setbacks the archives team is small 12
Engineers are work were working
tirelessly to restore operations and
bolster security continuing its vital
work to safeguard Universal knowledge
they're actively seeking technical staff
to help support their mission so don't
be afraid to check it out number one and
to no one's surprise crowd strike on
July 19th 2024 at 409 a.m. UTC a crowd
strike Falcon update caused worldwide
chaos as Windows machines across the
globe crashed with the blue screen of
death the issu stem from misconfigured
Channel file 291 critical to managing
named pipe execution on Windows this led
to systems failures in Industries like
Airlines finance and Healthcare over 8.5
million devices were affected disrupting
surgeries halting production and
delaying Services globally cyber crimes
took advantage spreading fishing scams
described disguised as fixes crowd
strike fixed the issue within hours but
manual intervention was required leaving
many systems offline for days the
company later reported that 97% were
recovered but faced backlash for its
response including failed damage
controlled efforts like canceled food
delivery cards this event lot Ed as one
of the largest IT failures in history
underscores the vulnerability of global
infrastructure dependent on such tools
amid the chaos a major cyber security
acquisition deal involving GL Google and
whiz also fell through which we reason
may have been influenced by the outage
thank you so much for watching the 2024
recap what did you think agree on the
order or disagree let me know in the
comments down below or let me know if I
missed a story that you think should
have been on the top 10 to be honest the
order was decided by voting and
discussions over on my twitch Channel as
a reminder if you do want to talk about
the stories for each threatwire as I
write them be sure to head over and
follow me on Twitch or YouTube I live
stream on both we will be back with our
regularly programmed content next week
but as it heads up I'll be at the final
ever shukan this weekend so I'll see you
there also in addition you'll notice
that something looks a little different
here it's because I'm moved so as I get
the threat wire set Studio set up please
be kind with me as I figure out how to
get the background hung up because right
now I don't have enough space so I'm
going to make it work though let's hope
for an exciting year of news stories in
2025 and to kick off the year right I
hope everyone had fantastic holidays and
a lovely new year you can find me online
everywhere at ending with alley and as
always good luck have fun and don't get
caught