cyber threats in 2024 reached
unprecedented levels impacting healthare
finance and even global politics here
are the top 10 cyber attacks that Define
the year and lessons we can learn from
them in February the ALF black cat
ransomware group disrupted healthc care
across the United States exposing the
sensitive Medical Data of 100 million
people the company paid a $22 million
Ransom to recover
operations a breach onow flakes Cloud
platform exposed accounts for major
companies like atdt and Ticketmaster
attackers linked to scattered spider
stole terabytes of data extorting
millions in the
process China's volt typhoon targeted us
infrastructure while salt typhoon hacked
Telecom providers like atand DT to spy
on political figures these attacks
highlighted growing geopolitical cyber
tensions this March supply chain attack
embedded malicious code into a
compression tool threatening thousand
thousands of systems globally
fortunately it was mitigated in
time hackers sold 2.9 billion records of
personal data from national public data
for $3.5 million on the dark web the
breach exposed Social Security numbers
phone numbers and
more a faulty update caused Global it
outages affecting 8.5 million devices
industries from Airlines to hospitals
experience disruptions with damages
reaching $5.4 billion
Pro Palestinian hackers breached the
internet archive exposing 31 million
files this attack combined data breaches
with DOs campaigns targeting critical
us-based
organizations state-backed Hackers from
Russia China and Iran tried over 20
times to misuse open AI tools like chat
GPT for fishing and malware development
revealing the risks of AI and cyber
warfare in May Dell confirmed the
exposure of 49 million customer records
including names and addresses the stolen
database was offered online for
$500,000 Russian group midnight blizzard
also known as
a29 accessed emails of Microsoft
Executives stealing sensitive corporate
data the Espionage campaign began in
late 2023 and was uncovered in January
2024 these attacks show the rising
sophistication of cyber threats to
protect against them organ organizations
must invest in multiactor authentication
regular vulnerability checks and
employee training the stakes have never
been higher