if you want to master trade in
Psychology this is the video that will
help you out I created 25 laws and it
took me a long time to create these laws
so make sure you pay attention because
they are very important I was going to
save this video only for my trading
program but honestly I really believe
every Trader needs to hear this I think
this is going to be top five trading
psychology video on YouTube and of
course I am biased but I want you to be
the judge now while I'm going over these
25 laws you will see me look down on my
laptop screen because I want to read
everything because I don't want to miss
anything right so it's very important
that I need to read it so are you ready
all right so let's go
law number one always stay conscious you
want to stay in the now you want to have
awareness because without awareness
there is no control there are two things
that's going to be in your way when you
are trying to stay conscious number one
your brain wants to stay on autopilot
and believe it or not it's actually for
a good reason your brain wants to save
energy so imagine you know walking and
saying okay I'm about to put my right
foot in front of my left foot now I'm
about to put my left foot in front of my
right foot now I'm about to put my right
foot in front of my left foot I mean you
would go crazy so your brain doesn't
want to think about that it wants to
stay on autopilot so you can
automatically do things without thinking
but the thing about being on autopilot
is you don't want that to control you to
the point where you are always asleep
now the second thing that's going to be
in your way is your emotions when you
are very emotional your brain gets very
cloudy and you can't think and believe
it or not that is for a good reason too
I'm quite sure you heard a flight a
fight right that's all about you either
run away from danger or you fight to
survive so imagine someone is about to
attack you your brain doesn't want to
think it wants to get out that situation
as quick as possible or you need to
defend yourself so you don't have time
to think about anything else you are
just trying to survive that's why your
brain doesn't want to think in those
situations so let's say for example a
dog is running straight at you you don't
want to be thinking you don't want to
say um how fast that dog is going is it
going 15 miles per hour should I go left
should I go right no you want to run as
quick as possible so that dog won't
attack you so I hope you understand why
your brain gets cloudy when emotions
take over your body now what are
emotions emotions are just chemicals
that's flowing through your body and
once it flows through your body
especially if you get really emotional
it takes over your body and usually you
don't think straight just like any other
drug drugs all chemicals right and if
you take a strong enough drug book that
drug will take over your body and most
likely you won't be able to think
straight you get tired or sleepy or
whatever the case is but you're not
yourself so the key to staying awake
when you are trading is you have to
understand when you are about to get mad
and you have to stop it immediately
because if you get really mad again
chemicals is going to take over your
body and you're not going to think
straight and we don't want that when
we're on trading and if you're trading
and you're very emotional guess what you
ought to make mistakes and when you make
that mistake guess what you say oh man
yeah I made that mistake well next time
next time I won't make that mistake well
if you keep doing something after the
fact or keep saying that after the fact
you would never improve so you always
have to stay conscious and understand
okay I'm about to get mad let me chill
out and this is the only way you are
grown to grow if you stay conscious I
call it real time thinking you have to
think in real time and understand all
right you know I'm getting too emotional
I'm about to get mad let me chill out
because I don't want to do anything to
hurt my trading so how to stay conscious
when you are trading well you can do
these two things the first thing you
could do is you can set an alarm and I
used to do this back in the days right I
used to have an alarm every 10 minutes
it will go off and I will check you know
how I feel and I'm following my rules
and so on right just check in to see if
you know you're not emotional or see if
you're following rules and go from there
the second thing you could do is you can
ask yourself every time you take a trade
trade it's just a good trade because a
lot of times a lot of people take a
trade and they don't ask themselves hey
is this a good trade or not so ask
yourself before you take a trade is this
a good trade or not that will help you
stay awake law number two accept
everything the way it is most people are
complainers and they complain instead of
accepting their situation for example
some Traders have a hard time accepting
that they are going to lose on some
trades this is why Traders always search
for the Holy Grail some type of 100 win
rate but we all know that that doesn't
exist reality tells us we are always
going to have losers and if you don't
think this way then you are not
accepting everything the way it is when
it comes to trade and fear is
unavoidable and you have to accept that
you have to accept your win rate might
be 55 to 65 percent right if you get
really good it might turn into 70 or 75
but don't expect a 90 win rate that's
not reality you have to accept trading
is going to be hard in the beginning and
it might take you months for you to get
used to your trading strategy so if you
don't accept everything the way it is
then you become a victim of that which
you didn't accept meaning if it's
raining out there and you don't accept
that it's raining right you're gonna go
outside and get wet you're gonna say oh
man forget about this man I'm just gonna
go outside with no umbrella you are not
accepting reality most Traders complain
and become a complainer because they
decided to not accept reality if you
don't accept reality you will always
suffer remember that once you accept
everything the way it is now you have
the power law number three use
repetition to build good trading skills
there's no other way around this you
can't skip this step if you skip this
then you will never become a good Trader
in order to build good trading skills
you are going to have to do something
good over and over and over key word
good I bet you right now Steph Curry is
in a gym practicing his three-pointers
why does he need to practice three
pointers I mean he's probably one of the
best Shooters in the world is because he
understands that if he doesn't practice
he's not going to be very sharp when he
played basketball against these other
teams he understands that if he keeps
practicing he's going to continue to
build up his muscle memory in trading
you have mental muscle memory so
repetition will help you build your
muscle memory and it will help you build
confidence and it also will help you
with trading psychology most people
think looking at one video is enough and
it's not even the smallest people on the
planet have to read one book multiple
times to remember key points it's called
repetition and if you do this then you
will be ahead of ninety percent of
Traders out here and you might be part
of the 10 so how do you build good
trading skills with repetition well you
back test more you look at videos more
you don't want to look at videos just
one time okay look at maybe 10 times or
20 times or whatever and you also can
look over your trades that's how you
build good trading skills and you keep
doing that over and over and over use
repetition put in some reps law number
four trade with a peace of mind when you
trade you want your stress levels to be
as low as possible because if they are
not then it's going to be very hard to
make good decisions when you are trading
so how can you trade with a peace of
mind well number one make sure you have
no distractions when you are traded
number two risk a small percentage of
your trading account when you are traded
because if you go too big too fast how
can you really trade with a peace of
mind number three do the right thing
right it's that simple keep doing the
right things number four back test
because when you back test you will see
the market much better and you will
understand the market much better and
when you understand the market much
better you are definitely going to trade
with a peace of mind and the last one
number five always remind yourself you
are going to have losing trades so you
won't get mad when you do lose lower
number five keep creating good habits so
why do you want to create good habits
well remember your brain is always
trying to stay on autopilot and remember
that's a good thing so since you know
your brain wants to always be on
autopilot then you want to get your
brain to automatically do good things
that's the cheat code right there that's
a hack that equals a good life but the
problem is most people are not willing
to put in the energy in the beginning to
get the ball running in order for this
to work you have to build momentum in
the beginning but most people are too
lazy to put in the work so they will
never get to benefit from this cheat
code imagine waking up every single day
and your brain is automatically doing
good things imagine waking up and
automatically going to the gym even if
you don't feel like it and that that's
because you build good habits or imagine
trading the markets and automatically
following your trading rules how cool is
that that's the power of having good
habits let me tell you this motivation
only lasts for maybe you know two hours
one hour maybe a couple of days but good
habits it lasts from days months years
habits are stronger than motivation so I
want you to keep that in mind so how can
we build good habits well first thing we
can do is we can keep doing good things
every single day you know keep it simple
second thing we do is you know have a
good checklist the third thing we can do
is we can take screenshots and write in
our journal every single day those are
good habits and I'm quite sure you can
add some more good habits to the list
law number six always work on your
self-discipline so when it comes to your
self-discipline there isn't a quick fix
this is something you have to build day
by day just like building your muscle
you have to build your muscle every
single day and you can't rush to process
right so the same thing with trading
guys you can't rush your trade in so
let's say for example you go into the
gym and you're trying to bench press 300
pounds and you never bench press 300
pounds in your life you're gonna hurt
yourself right of course the same thing
with your trading if you start trading
risking one thousand dollars per trade
you are going to hurt yourself
financially because you are not ready
yet so the name of the game is slow and
steady slow and steady wins the race so
please do not rush so how do we build
self-discipline well one thing you do is
trade less right second thing you can do
is have clear trading goals how can you
really build discipline if you are
always guessing you can't the third
thing you can do is you can only trade
when the market is clear
right that's definitely going to build
your discipline and the fourth thing you
can do is you can actually have an
accountability partner and that person
will hold you accountable okay law
number seven eliminate fear by conscious
practice you have to consciously
practice the right things over and over
key words right things most people
practice the wrong things over and over
and if you keep doing the wrong things
over and over that's going to make you
more fearful because every time you try
to do something you are going to be
scared that it's not going to work out
like being scared to take the next trade
everyone wants to know how can they get
rid of Their Fear hey Ben how can I get
rid of Revenge trading hey Ben how can I
get rid of this how can I get rid of
that and I can hear it in a voice they
want a quick fix but that doesn't exist
so stop searching for it you can't get
rid of your fear because fear is a
hardwired emotion in the brain but what
you can do is you can manage your fear
but you have to work on that day by day
just like you you have to work on your
self-discipline day by day you have to
do the same with fear I don't care how
many videos you watch on Fair I don't
care how many books you read on fear you
have to work on it day by day I'm sorry
there isn't a quick fix it is what it is
I still have fear here and there but it
doesn't control me because I know how to
manage it if you feel fear you have to
say oh well and keep going and don't let
fear stop you that's what most
successful Traders do they feel the fear
and still keep going so how can you
reduce your fear levels well you can do
it by learning from your mistakes every
time you learn from your mistakes you're
getting smarter and you grow confidence
it's like with anything else the first
time you drive a car you wasn't that
good right but later down the road you
learn from mistakes and now you are a
better driver and now you don't have
that much fear Lord number eight always
fully commit you have to do this because
if you don't it's going to affect you
mentally because you are always going to
give up every single time time you hit a
little speed bump when you are traded so
you have to give it your all listen you
can take breaks here and there if you
have to but giving up because you hit a
little speed bump with your trading that
is not cool you have to learn how to
last if you really want to win this
mental game or this emotional game then
you can't give up you can't stop you win
by not stopping that's how you win so
how can you really fully commit well I'm
gonna share two things that help me
number one I knew my why so you have to
write down your why why are you traded
is it because you want freedom is it
because you want travel more it's
because you want to provide for your
family whatever it is write it down and
the second thing is think about
something that's very painful that's
going to help you keep going me
personally what I did I used to imagine
myself waking up every single day
working at the same job I was like no
that's too painful and that helped me to
keep going right so make sure you do
those two things law number nine Trace
more to reduce fear most of your
problems are based on thinking about
money think about it fomo what's that
about you're thinking about oh man I'm
gonna miss out on money Revenge trading
what's that about oh I just lost so I
gotta make sure I get my money back over
trading what's that about oh let me over
trade because I want to make more money
most of your problems are attached to
money so it's best to detach yourself
from the money when you are traded when
I decided to do this man it was like
magic I was in a Zone my results were
getting better because I wasn't thinking
about the money I was thinking about is
this a good trade or not and that's it
so this will definitely help you out
when it comes to reducing your fear law
number 10 never stop constantly
improving improving is the glue this is
the part where a lot of Traders skip
Traders are willing to learn some are
willing to take action but most never
try to improve I see a lot of Traders
keep doing the same bad things over and
over and over
stop that you have to know that it's
impossible to stay at the same level if
you keep on improving you can't lose
forever if you keep improving
this is another cheat code you have to
understand this cheat code because if
you focus on growth and improving then
the money will come automatically listen
I don't like to use the word guarantee
but if I had to use it this is the time
I will use it I would say I guarantee if
you keep improving you will see success
the problem is you can't put an exact
time on it so you just have to keep
going a couple of years ago I was
looking at an interview with Jeff Bezos
the owner of Amazon and this was in 1999
and the interviewer was asking him hey
what about your investors do you think
your investors will lose money and he
said to him yeah it's a possibility that
they can lose money but if I keep
improving customer service I can win the
game now look at Jeff Bezos he's
probably one of the richest guys on the
planet because he understood this cheat
code he understood that if you keep
improving it's impossible to lose
forever law number 11 learn to be
realistic being unreal holistic will
disconnect you from reality and you
never want that being realistic is
knowing that you are going to lose in
the beginning right that's being
realistic being realistic is knowing
that you are not going to become a
master in one month that's being
realistic I always give myself at least
three months to a year to get used to
anything I'm doing and I understand in
the beginning I'm in a learning phase so
it might take me three months to a year
for me to start seeing some type of
results but most people don't think this
way most people don't realize that time
goes by so quick when you are trading I
mean right now the year is almost over
and it went by so quick so if I were you
I wouldn't worry about time just put it
in work and be realistic I think a lot
of Trades believe if they put together a
plan then they think they should see
results immediately that's not being
realistic you have to take your trading
plan trade the markets so you can gain
experience first then and you will start
to see results just like any other
business now I want you guys to
understand everyone's success time is
different some people are slow Learners
and some people are fast Learners I'm a
slow learner right so it's probably
going to take me longer to see success
but you might be a fast learner but you
have to understand everyone's success
time is different law number 12 always
take the right trade trading is all
about taking the right trade no matter
what no matter how you feel it doesn't
matter if you feel like this trade isn't
going to work out
take the trade if your strategy tells
you to take the trade and you take it
because if you miss out on that trade
and that trade is a winner you are going
to feel bad and that might lead to
Revenge trading or forcing the next
trade if you don't take the right trade
but you always take the wrong trade then
guess what you are always going to feel
bad after the fact and that's going to
hurt you mentally and you are going to
create bad habits that way so it's
always best to take the right trade law
number 13 know your numbers know your
stats know your numbers when it comes to
my trading system I know my numbers I
know my stats and it helps me to do the
right things over and over because it's
actually harder for me to do the wrong
things when I know I have a strategy
that works this is why it is very
important for you to know your numbers
because it's going to help you with your
confidence because you know you have a
winning strategy so me personally I
don't care if I have two losers in a row
or three losers in a row or a losing
week that doesn't matter to me because I
trust my numbers and that gives me
confidence and I feel that if I keep
trading the right way and not get
emotional while I'm trading I'm going to
win it's that simple so know your
numbers law number 14 never trade a
strategy live that doesn't work you have
to have a strategy that works don't
trade a strategy without back testing it
you have to know it works because if you
don't have a strategy that works you're
probably going to blame it on trading
psychology but that might not be the
case it might be your trading strategy
strategy matters most Traders believe
that trading is 90 psychology and 10
strategy me personally I don't believe
that I believe it's around 70 psychology
and 30 strategy because strategy matters
when it comes to strategy there are a
lot of little nuances that a lot of
Traders don't know about most Traders I
know they don't have a complete strategy
so let's say that you are buying at
resistance or selling that support and
you're trying to figure out man why I'm
always losing well that could be the
reason so you might be one adjustment
away from seeing success with your
Trader I remember you know a couple of
months I was helping out a Trader and
he's like man I want you to look at my
trade so I'm looking at trades I was
like how come you're trading so many
markets and then you know the next day
he started to trade less markets in the
following week he came to me and said
hey man I'm doing way better with my
trading so that is a good example of it
might not be trading psychology it might
be your system so you might be one
adjustment away from actually seeing
trading success law number 15 fix your
inner self in order to become a good
husband you need to work on yourself in
order to become a good wife you need to
work on yourself in order to become a
good basketball player you need to work
on yourself in order to become a good
lawyer you need to work on yourself in
order to become a great Trader guess
what you need to work on yourself you
need to be the best version of yourself
you can't remain the same so you need to
change your inner self the person that's
inside of you people want to remain the
same and at the same time they want
better results that's impossible how do
I know that's impossible because you are
not successful yet you can't be the same
person that means you have to change you
you have to change your beliefs you have
to have self-discipline you have to make
sure your personal life is not sloppy
you have to learn how to control your
emotions and I can go on and on and on
and the reason why you have to change
these things is because if you don't
most likely it will spill in your
trading so if you are stressed out in
your personal life you don't think
that's going to affect your trading of
course it is if you are always angry man
that can definitely affect your trading
because you can Revenge trade at any
moment if you are a cocky person that's
not good for trading because you might
do something crazy the next thing you
know you blow up your account so make
sure you fix your inner self law number
16 always track your behavior you always
want to track your behavior because it
could be the reason why you are not
successful right now you might not be
getting enough sleep at night or you
have a lot of things that are
distracting you when you are trading and
believe it or not you might not think
that this stuff is affecting your
trading but most likely it is this is
why it's very important to track your
behavior so when you start to track your
behavior you might realize wow every
time I go to bed late the next trading
day I have a losing day or I might miss
out on some good trades because I'm
tired or you might find out every time I
work out before I trade I tend to have a
good trading day or you might find out
you have your worst trading days after
an argument or maybe when you get too
excited about a trade you lose 90 of the
time I remember when I used to get too
excited I used to lose all the time so
if you are tracking this and let's say
that for example you know every time
when you get excited you know that trade
is probably going to be a loser maybe
you don't want to take that trade or
maybe you want to size down or let's say
that you know every time you go to bed
late you have a bad trading day the next
day well maybe you probably don't want
to trade that day or maybe you want to
size down if you do trade so always
track your behavior lower number 17 do
not do things to lower your confidence
in trading confidence is so underrated I
think more Traders need to talk about
confidence because it is very important
confidence can actually make a
profitable Trader an unprofitable Trader
because his or her confidence is low
but you have to know that in the
beginning you might not have a lot of
confidence and if you do that's called
overconfidence and you don't want that
confidence has to be earned through
experience now here are a couple of
things that are going to lower your
confidence Revenge trading that's
definitely going to lower your
confidence not following the rules
because when you break your rules you
don't feel good after that and that's
going to lower your confidence because
you're going to lose money guessing when
you are trading man that's not good when
you're guessing you're never going to
trade the right way losing a lot of
money because you're risking too much
that's definitely going to lower your
confidence not back testing the reason
why that's going to lower your
confidence because if you don't back
test how are you really going to
understand the market at a high level so
you're always nervous you're always like
oh man I don't understand the market
you're not really trading the right way
so that's going to lower your confidence
and not going over your trades to see
why you're losing that's another way to
lower your confidence so how can you
gain confidence well by doing the
opposite of what we just talked about
right you have to keep doing the right
things you have to not Revenge trade you
have to follow your rules right Etc guys
you need to believe in your trading
because if you don't this is not going
to work so make sure you don't do things
to lower your confidence lower number 18
learn to be organized this will help you
mentally a lot because if you are not
organized then you are always going to
feel lost when you are traded when we
traded markets sometimes we forget
especially if you are a new Trader
you're definitely going to forget so
please do not rely on your memory you
need to be organized you need to write
things down and have them in front of
you while you are trading so there isn't
any guessing involved don't you know
there are a lot of Traders out here that
will take a trade and they don't know
where to exit so that means that that
Trader is guessing and if you are always
guessing then you are always going to be
scared when you're traded a person that
is organized will always outdo a person
that's not keep that in mind when you
are organized you are going to feel more
relaxed when you are trading so please
guys guys please be more organized Lord
number 19 avoid judging yourself on one
trade a lot of Traders do this they get
so mad about one loser guys I'm here to
tell you that it's not that deep get
over it always remember trading is not
about one trade it's about multiple
trades so let's say for example during
the week you take around 15 to 20 trades
if you have one loser that's not going
to destroy you you have 19 more trades
to go so why are you worried about one
loser it doesn't make sense so stop it
please law number 20 always dig deep and
dissect your trading problems your
trading problems might not be the same
as my trading problems Traders come to
me all the time and ask me hey Ben how
can I control my emotions well there
isn't a black and white answer for that
I can say something like follow your
rules or make sure you don't do this so
make sure you don't do that but your
problem might be much deeper than that
it might be that you are not getting
enough sleep but I don't know that this
is why you are going to have to dig deep
because you are the only one that knows
the answers so stop feeling sorry for
yourself and ask yourself the right
questions all the time and figure out
why are you making these mistakes for
example I realize when I Revenge trade
is usually because I miss out on a trade
now I want you to realize that is much
deeper than just saying I Revenge rate
you can't just say oh I'm doing bad with
my trading because I Revenge trade no
it's best to say I Revenge trade because
of blank so I have a registrated because
I miss out on trades or whatever that's
much better because you are going much
deeper so once you find out the reason
then you want to come up with a solution
to fix the problem so for example let's
say that you Revenge trade every time
you miss a trade so next time you miss
the trade what you can do is you can
close your laptop and be done for the
day right that's a simple solution or
you can say you know what I just missed
the trade I don't want to Revenge trade
let me just take a break let me go at
the house get some fresh air take a
break and then I'm gonna come back to my
computer so make sure you always come up
with a solution law number 21 never set
any daily money goals in the beginning
this will mess you up mentally
especially if you are a beginner because
if you don't hit your daily goal for
that day it might make you feel bad or
you might feel like a loser and also you
might over trade just to hit your daily
goal so let's say for example if your
daily goal is one hundred dollars per
day and let's say that you are up 89 you
might Force another trade just to get
that 100 goal and you don't want to do
that so in the beginning it's best to
not set any money goals it's best to
trade the right way in whatever you make
for that day be happy with that all
professional traders that I know they
don't have any daily goals they might
have monthly goals or yearly goals but
they don't really care about daily goals
so keep that in mind law number 22 take
responsibility in all situations always
ask yourself how am I responsible for
whatever just happened because when you
ask that question you take control if
you say things like the market is always
out to get me or the reason why I'm not
successful is because of some strategy I
learn online or the market is acting
different now so that's why I'm losing
money if you are saying things like that
then you are given that thing or that
situation power so subconsciously you
are telling yourself that you are
screwed and you can't do anything about
your situation but if you say things
like I'm the reason why I'm losing money
if you think like that then now you have
the power and you actually could do
something about your situation if you
take full responsibility then you will
always have the power law number 23 do
not try to make back your money after a
big loser what is the first thing you do
when you have a big loser or if you are
on a losing streak most Traders are
going to try to make their money back
don't do it forget about your loss the
first thing you need to do is find out
why you took that big hit or why you are
on the losing streak the second thing
you need to do is you need to lower your
size or go back to demo to build up your
confidence again because if you rush
this process and try to make back all
your money you might do more damage
meaning you might lose more money and
the reason why you might lose more money
is because you are not thinking straight
all you're thinking about is how can I
make my money back and that's the worst
way to trade so again don't rush to try
to make back your money it's similar to
you know having an injury if you try to
rush and come back too soon from your
injury then you will hurt yourself again
so the best thing to do is go to rehab
daily right take it day by day and don't
rush well you need to do same thing with
trading you need to take it day by day
to build your confidence up and once you
build up your confidence and you see
yourself getting back on track then you
can trade with your regular size law
number 24 learn how to adjust and adapt
if you day trade then you should know
that the market doesn't look the same
every day or every month or every year
this is why you need to adapt and trade
what you see and not what you think you
see when you are trading ask yourself
what is the market doing today is it
breaking out today is it ranging today
is it reversing today is it trending
today whatever it's doing you need to
use a strategy for that right so if it's
trending then you need to use your
training strategy so you have to know to
adjust your trading because the market
is always going to change different
states you might find yourself on a
winning streak and all of a sudden boom
you are losing like crazy well that
might be because the market decided to
change States and now you can't figure
out what's going on this is why I
believe in my opinion you should have
multiple strategies just in case the
market decides to change different
states so please learn how to adapt Lord
number 25 always focus on what you can't
control you can't control what's
happening outside of you but you can't
control your actions meaning you can't
control whether someone is going to
treat you bad or if they are going to
have a bad attitude or you can't control
if someone cuts you off in traffic but
you can control how you react to that
situation you can't control how the
market is going to behave today if it's
going to be slow or choppy you can't
control that but you can control
managing your risk you can control
trading less you can control falling
rules right Etc so focus on what you can
control because trying to control the
uncontrollable is suffering let me say
that again trying to control the
uncontrollable is suffering you will
suffer if you try to control something
that's outside of you you're gonna
suffer so you have to understand that
right you can't control if the market is
going to stop you out so stop worrying
about that just take the trade and
everything else will take care of itself
so those are the 25 laws I believe these
laws will help you out with your trading
and not only your trading I believe it
can actually help you with your regular
life too so if you enjoy this video make
sure you hit that like button make sure
you hit that subscribe button and also
check out my trading program Below in
the description that trading program
will help you take your trading to the
next level I actually have a Black
Friday and Thanksgiving discount going
on and will end very very soon so please
take advantage of that if you have any
questions comment below because I try to
answer all you guys questions thanks a
lot for watching this video and please
have a great day