2024 was a landmark year for cyber
security packed with high-profile
incidents that showcase the evolving
tactics of trade actors and the
evilities of modern systems in this
video we'll explore the most impactful
cyber security stories of the year what
they mean for you and how you can
protect yourself let's start with the
one of the most shocking incidents the
internet archive hack on October 9th
this virtual resource for historical
internet data was hit by two simultanous
attacks a data Bridge affecting 32
million users and aidos attack the
bridge was made possible by an exposed
gate laab configuration file that
granted attackers access to notification
tokens with this the threat actors
downloaded the site source code user
database and more they even modified the
website itself the attacks were
attributed to different groups including
a prop Palestinian group named SN black
meta demonstrating how diverse
motivations can lead to devastating
outcomes this case underscores the
importance of security development tools
and promptly rotating access tokens next
let's talk about the cross state Falcon
update on July 19th a faulty update for
this popular cyber security tool caused
widespread chaos crashing approximately
8.5 million Windows devices organization
worldwide including Financial firm and
hospitals were thrown into tril as their
systems entered endless reboot Loops
Microsoft Le a repair tool but the
recovery process was anything but smooth
cyber criminals took advantage of the
situation Distributing fake repair tools
and breed with Ware further completing
recovery efforts this incident
highlights the critical need for St
validation process in software updates
and the danger of lying on Kel drivers
without advocate safeguards in June go
political tension spad into TCH world
with the US government Banning kasperski
antivirus software users were given
until September to switch to Alternative
Solutions and kaspari Tim shut down its
us operations the company sold its
customer base to Bango which installed
Ultra AV software on user devices
without clear notifications the sudden
replacement left many users feeling
violated sparking debates about the
effects of force sof for immigration and
the board appication of geopolitical
decisions on T consumers the year began
with chilling reminder of state
sponsored threats when Microsoft
disclosed that Russian hackers had
breached their Corporate email servers
in late 2023 the attackers linked to the
group midnight blizzard also known as
nobelium or AP t29 access sensitive
emails including information about their
own operations using a password spray
attack they gained access to Legacy T
tenant account which led to elevated
privileges the bridge continued in March
2024 with attacker stealing source code
and compromising Federal agency
Communications this series of incidents
underscores the risk post possessed by
Legacy accounts and the need for robust
access controls in August a Monumental
breach at national public that exposed
personal information for millions of
Americans including Social Security
numbers and addresses the stolen data
initially offered for sale at 3.5
million was later leaked for free this
incident serves as a star reminder of
the dangers of centralized data
collection and the need for stronger
regulation to protect sensitive
information Edge networking devices were
another major Target in 2024 with
attackers focusing on devices from
manufactur like fornate DP link ivanti
and Cisco these devices designed to be
exposed to the internet often serve as
gateways into internal networks
unpromised notable incidents included
the explanation of 40 Gate Systems by
Chinese hikers and the use of B Nets to
steal credential from network devices
the is even considered Banning China MP
link routers over cyber security
concerns illustrating the far-reaching
application of these attacks one of the
most distributive run Sumer attacks of
the Year targeted cdk Global as a s
provider for the car dealership the
black suit Ransom gang brought
operations to a hold leaving dealerships
unable to track inventory process sales
or offer financing this attack showcased
the vulnerabilities in rying on a single
platform of critical businesses
operation and the repel effects of such
distribution of depending Industries
another significant run over attack
affected United Health change Healthcare
in February the blackhe Rover gang
exploited a lack of multiactor ification
in the company critics remote access
service stealing six terab of data and
encrypting system United paid a 20
million romare but the attackers
extorted the company again using stolen
data this double exloration tactic has
become increasingly common further
highlighting the need for robust access
controls and secure backup systems 2024
or saw theise of information stealing
malver or info Stealers this molecular
tool target browser data saf credentials
cryptocurrency wallets and more they
were used in wide range of campaigns
from pushing malver via fake capture
pages to exploiting GitHub repositories
to disturb rogans the financial and
operation losses caused by these attacks
have been devastating emphasizing the
importance of two Factor notification
and vence against fishing schemes on the
Espanish front North Korea IT workers
infal job markets under false identities
generating revenue for the country
nuclear weapon program reports from
security firms will hold these workers
posted as a legitimate professionals to
gain access to sensitive systems even
security roles in ProMed companies the
incident highlights the growing ofis
skated of nation state tactics and the
need for Ving process in hiring
meanwhile unso operations face their own
challenges operation coronos distributed
the famous log bit gang seizing service
and critical infrastructure although lbe
attempted to relaunch their operations
never fully recovered this marks a
significant win for the internal law
enforcement in ongoing battle against
ransomware Microsoft Windows 11 recoil
feature also made headlines sparking
privacy concerns among users and
Security Experts alike intended to
enhance user experience with AI powered
recall capabilities the feature was
delayed multiple times as flaws were
discovered critics argued that the
potential misuse of this feature by
Trader possessed a significant risk
demonstrating how even well-intentioned
features can have unintended
consequences the Telecom sector was not
spared in 2024 Chinese hiking group Sal
typhoon targeted major Telecom providers
globally sing Tech text messages call
data and even compromising wire tapping
these attacks raised serious National
Security concerns prompting legalization
actions in the US to strengthen Telecom
cyber security standards finally let's
not forget the internet of things which
continues to be a hotbed over abilities
devising ranging from routers to Smart
Home systems for exploited in various
attacks throughout the year one standard
example was the discovery of critical
vulnerability in iot devices
manufactured by popular brands
emphasizing the urgent need for better
security practices in this rapidly G
sector 2024 was undoubtfully a year of
challenges and lessons for cyber
security for Rover and data reaches to
State sponsor espach and the rise of
info Stealers the threads are growing in
scale and cations the takeway stay
proactive update your devices enable
twoa notification and remain Vigilant
against fishing attempts as always
practice good security hygiene and never
underestimate the importance of
protecting your digital ass is