$8 trillion that's the predicted cost of
cyber crime in 2023 it is an
incomprehensibly large cost of society
to put into further context the annual
cost of cyber crime is larger than the
GDP of Canada Russia Brazil and UK put
together the amounted scale of cyber
attacks and data breaches in recent
years is staggering so in this video
we're going to take a look at some of
the most common cyber security attacks
in 2023 break down how they work and
understand how to protect yourself
against these attacks in 2024 the five
most common cyber attacks are fishing
ransomware Doos SQL injection and
malware let's start with fishing fishing
is one of the most common types of cyber
security attacks in the world fishing
involves a hacker typically masquerading
as a trustworthy entity trying to trick
you into volunteering your sensitive
information such as login credentials
and credit card numbers fishing scams
trick victims by using social
engineering to create the sense of
urgency and because several people in
your organization may receive it at the
same time it's even more dangerous and
if even one person clicks on the
malicious link inside that communication
that's when the House of Cards really
starts to topple hackers when we quick
to ask you to submit personal details or
fake website they might have made up or
send money to accounts that you trust
but actually belong to them to see this
in the real world let me introduce you
to alvus nimus an all assuming
50-year-old n Ian man he may not seem
like much but over just a 2ear span and
with just one simple fishing trick Al
stored more than $12 million from
Facebook and Google so how do you do it
well alidis impersonated a legitimate
Hardware supplier from Asia which
Facebook and Google did routine business
with and sent fishing mails to the
employees of these tech companies in
these mails he would raise fraudulent
invoices posing as the hardware company
asking employees of face Facebook and
Google to transfer money into bank
accounts that he created that had the
same name as the original Hardware
supplier and he got away with this for
nearly 2 years from 2013 to 2015 there's
a variety of fishing attacks some with
fun fun related names like spear fishing
and whale fishing other examples include
clone fishing fishing link manipulation
filter evation and website forging so
how do you protect yourself against a
fishing attack in 2024 experts recommend
some best practices to avoid fishing
always start with staff training human
error was the cause of 90% of data
breaches in 2019 so always train your
staff to verify sender details never
click on suspicious links and beware of
emails that request sensitive
information in an urgent manner number
two ransomware ransomware very simply
put is a type of malicious software
designed to deny you access to your own
computer or data until a ransom is paid
and the 2020s have been wife with it to
understand what ransomware looks like
imagine your 5-year-old takes your phone
and refuses to give it back to you until
you give them a treat now imagine this
happening 500 million times a year and
instead of toddlers eats hackers and
instead of treats eats billions of
dollars ransomware can paralyze entire
infrastructures cause major downtime
digal intellectual property theft and so
much more the most popular real world
example of landm is War Cry released in
2017 warry targeted computers running
Windows operating systems it then locked
users out of their systems and would ask
for a payment often hundreds of dollars
in order to give users back their access
there's four broad types of ransomware
scareware screen lockers encryption
ransomware and mobile ransomware the
best ways to tackle transfer is to
eliminate points of failure so regularly
back up your data always keep your
software updated and use utable
antivirus software to provide
unauthorized applications from executing
in the first place if you attacked
exports also recommend not paying as
that only increases the incentive for
further attacks like that to take place
number three dos attacks one of the more
popular tropes in movies dos is an
abbreviation for distributed denial of
service in a Dos attack multiple
compromised computer systems attack a
single Target such as a server or a
website overloading it and causing a
denial of services for other users a
dados attack can disrupt any service
connected to the internet such as
Network databases mobile devices and
even specific application functions as a
result a DS attack can lead to
significant operational financial and
reputational dages unlike fishing in
malware there's no one simple way to
prevent a DS attack not only are
companies constantly under attack the
scale and frequency of these attacks
have gotten exponentially larger over
the years too in 2022 Google blocked
what it called the largest dos attack
ever executed the very next year another
dos attack took Place against Google
except this one was 7 and 1 half times
larger in volume than the previous
there's three broad kinds of Dos attacks
volume based protocol Network layer
based and application layer based
attacks to protect against DS attacks
experts recommend companies employ Doos
Production Services and manage Network
infrastructure so that it can handle
unexpected traffic spikes number four
SQL injection to understand SQL
injection it helps to understand what
SQL is we stands for structured query
language and it's a popular programming
language used to manage online databases
it is incredibly powerful and popular as
a tool what makes it dangerous well
businesses often use SP and databases to
store sensitive information like user
names password credit card information
and other important data in poorly
designed websites with inadequate input
validation or web page or app will have
a user input directly into an SQL query
this is a problem because hackers can
feed cust inputs to the database in
question and gain access or manipulate
the databases as recently as 2015 talkop
a UK based phone and Broadband provider
suffered a major SQL injection attack
leading to the theft of personal data of
around 150,000 customers the direct and
indirect cost of the attack to the
company total nearly $100 million
there's three types of SQL injections
based on the methods that attackers use
to access backend data inband SQL
injection blind s injection and out of
band SQL injection there's several ways
to prevent SQL injection including using
secure coding practices parameterized
queries and object relational mapping
number five malware malware is one of
the most well-known types of cyber
security attacks and is at its core any
program or file that is harmful to a
computer you probably already know some
these types of malas computer viruses
worms trojen horses spyware adware and
more Stu net is probably one of the most
famous Industrial scale examples of
malware in history a highly
sophisticated computer worm that
targeted Iran's nuclear program it
caused substantial damage to Iran's
nuclear centrifuges significantly
setting back the country's nuclear
program different kinds of malware do
different things but at the end of the
day malware seeks to damage disrupt or
gain unauthorized access to computer
systems in doing so it can take partial
of full control over a devices
operations leading to sensitive data
leaks spying and blackware malware is
frequently installed on computers by
Shady internet downloads or USB drives
which automatically install the program
without the useen any malware is a cyber
security RIS whether the purpose of the
malware is to steal sensitive
information expose key stropes or even
just mind cryptocurrency there's several
ways to protect yourself against malware
including using reputable antivirus
software keeping systems updated and
being cautious of unsolicited downloads
and educating users and employees about
safe Computing practices one great way
to have your cyber security Basics
covered is by undertaking a cyber
security audit this could be n53 n CSF
soft 2 ISO 370001 and much more and if
you're looking to get compliant with any
kind of framework look no further than
compliance Automation and Sprinter
Sprinter helps companies get compliant
with over 15 plus Frameworks by
digitizing and automating the compliance
process this means that you can get
compliant faster and more effectively in
stay compliant to year round instructure
during an audit cycle improving your
cyber security companies just like yours
that get compliant with Sprinter save up
to 80% of their time effort and cost
during the compliance process to Le more
visit sprint.com or book a demo directly
with our cyber security and compliance
experts using the link in the
description below as always if you have
any questions feel free to leave them in
the comments we'll get back to you as
soon as
[Music]
possible