view out the latest cyber security news
in the US and around the world today top
10 cyber attacks of
2024 the year 2024 witnessed a surge in
cyber attacks with incidents targeting
critical infrastructure Health Care
financial institutions and even
political
campaigns one change Healthcare
ransomware attack alv black cat
ransomware group targeted change
Healthcare a subsidiary of United Health
Group this attack disrupted Healthcare
Services Nationwide affecting Hospital's
ability to process payments prescribe
medications and perform procedures the
company reportedly paid $22 million in
Ransom to recover
operations two snowflake data breach a
widespread breach in April 2024
compromised accounts stored on
snowflakes Cloud platform due to
inadequate security measures like
missing multiactor authentication MFA
high-profile victims included AT&T 70
million customers affected Ticket Master
560 million records stolen and Sant
andere Bank the attackers linked to the
scattered spider group stole terabytes
of sensitive data and extorted millions
from
corporations three Chinese Espionage
campaigns salt typhoon and Vault typhoon
Chinese state sponsored groups launched
two major campaigns in
2024 Vol typhoon infiltrated us critical
infrastructure networks to prepare for
potential disruptions during
geopolitical conflicts salt typhoon
targeted us Telecom providers like AT&T
and Verizon stealing metadata and
compromising Communications of political
figures such as Donald Trump and JD
Vance these campaigns showcased China's
strategic use of cyber Espionage to gain
geopolitical
leverage four xzit util supply chain
attack the X utils backdoor attack cve
2024 3094 disclosed in March 2024 was a
near Miss supply chain compromise that
could have caused catastrophic damage
the attackers embedded malicious code
into a widely used compression
utility five national public data breach
in April 2024 hackers breached national
public data systems exposing 2.9 billion
records containing personal information
such as social Security numbers and
phone numbers the data was sold on the
dark web for $3.5
million this breach highlighted the
risks posed by data Brokers collecting
and monetizing personal information
without robust security
measures six crowd strike Falcon update
outage a faulty software update for
crowd strike's Falcon platform in July
caused a global it outage affecting
approximately 8.5 million devices
critical sectors like air lines and
hospitals faced significant disruptions
resulting in an estimated $5.4 billion
in Damages for Fortune 500 companies
alone seven internet archive attack in
September 2024 attackers breached the
internet archive systems exposing over
31 million files including email
addresses and usernames the attack also
involved distributed denial of service
dos incidents by Pro Palestinian hackers
Target the us-based nonprofit
organization eight open ai's generative
AI exploitation
attempts open AI reported thwarting over
20 attempts by state sponsored groups
from Russia China and Iran to exploit
its large language models llms for
malicious purposes these included spear
fishing campaigns infrastructure
reconnaissance nine Dell data
breach in May 2024 Dell technology IES
disclosed a breach affecting 49 million
customer records containing names
addresses and Order details although
financial data was not exposed attackers
attempted to sell the stolen database
online for
$500,000 10 midnight blizzard targets
Microsoft Executives Russian threat
group midnight blizzard
a29 infiltrated Microsoft's Corporate
email accounts starting in late 2023 but
was discovered in January
24 the group accessed sensitive
information from senior Executives in
cyber security and legal departments as
part of a broader Espionage campaign
targeting private companies